Hello again you wonderful God people in this video were going to start working towards having locked
doors.
We've got basic doors now we want advance doors that have a lock on them.
But before we start putting these locked doors in let's work on the lock.
And specifically I want the lock to be beautiful.
I'm thinking about creating a number pad.
And there's no pad is going to control how the door is unlocked.
And I want this to be beautiful by using something called a thing.
The purpose of this video is to show you how awesome the themes are and why you should use them.
So we're talking about lock doors couple of things to bear in mind.
First off Locked doors are going to extend doors.
There are type of door so we can extend the scene and the script when you click on the locked door rather
than opening it's going to bring up this number pad.
This new behaviour the players a type in a number code to unlock the door.
So let's get to it.
First thing to do is make a brand new scene and our route code is going to be a pop up pop up is a type
of control mode controllers all going to be using frog specifically pop ups are used for pop up they're
using dialogues.
In other words they start hidden and then when you activate them in code they appear.
This is important because once we've made this it's not going to show up on screen if we just run the
see you can see this with this warning If a mouse over it it'll tell you it's hidden by default unless
you use any of the pop up functions will look at the pop up functions in a future video.
For now let's just create this invention.
So we have the base node and I need a texture in the background.
Now I have a bunch of called textures to use.
If you go over to graphics and interface and PRNG you've got a lot of really cool interface elements
from a any pack.
And specifically I want to use this metal panel how this metal panel they're bringing us a Sprite is
covering size the very size it to be the right size it gets all blurry.
So instead we're going to use a really cool node called a nine patch wrecked my patch rectangle a 9
patch rectangle is a node that splits a texture into a three by three grid and then gives you some control
over it.
Show me where drag metal panel over to texture.
So far it's just what it is to show why no patch rectangle is great.
Let's resize the pop up so the pop up is going to be a good size of say 300 by 400 is our go over to
rect which means rectangle properties and minimum size so when we say we set 300 by 400 pixels.
OK.
Now we make the nine patch rectangle for Rex So it's going to fill it and look everything everything's
distorted and blurring.
However let's go over the patch margin the patch margin is how much of this curve are we preserving.
So if I change this to let's pick a random number about 12 12 on the left 12 on the top 12 on the right
and 12 at the bottom.
And it's preserve the curve.
Now this is a bit much but you can tweak these values sir close the outputs.
So what we're doing you could tweak these values so maybe I won't I don't know six.
And what they're doing is saying preserve 6 pixels from the left six pixels on the top.
And I actually do want to get these bolts in.
I want them to look like they're actual bolts and I want them more blurry so maybe eight maybe 10 10
looks good so let's go tan.
I didn't measure this texture at the beginning.
So we now have a margin of 10 pixels that God is going to try and preserve especially around the corners.
That makes for really great recycling.
So we now have an awesome background while I read it.
Let's rename pop up.
This is actually going to be number pad.
There's no patch rectangles our background.
I'm going to rename it backgrounders so I know not to mess with anymore.
And it's done.
All right.
Next thing I need is a way of splitting things in the middle and I need a split container.
And I want to make the least bit container fit with in the number pad.
However I don't want any element going beyond these bolts.
So let's start off by going for rect and I go snap to grid and take a look at my grid settings.
Which is over here.
It a snap.
Let's go with a 10 by 10 pixel because I've set up not 256 that's wrong.
I've set the margin to be 10 pixel So I now know if I drag that in it'll go right to weather preserved
9 patch marginals.
That's going to be my v split container within this I manage to put things quick heads up until there's
more than one child of the split container.
It's going to keep recycling itself these split container organizes and three sizes elements within
it in the order they're in the sync tree.
Let's you and me.
I mean placenta container.
And this is going to be my display container someone call it display container.
And underneath I'm going to put one of these panels as you turn nine patch rectangle.
And let's call this display glass just so I'm very clear what's happening.
Going to drag in this glass panel.
OK.
Our glass panel is going to go to a full rectangle and now going to resize it later but for now that's
our full size.
Let's put the patch march in and for this.
I'm going to put in this one we think for pixels that sounds good.
So for the left foot on the right.
Great.
And just see you see what I'm doing.
Let's go back in here and make it full size.
So it's preserving this corner.
We're not getting these weird pixellated effect it's looking pretty good.
However what I've created right now is an iPad.
I don't want to like that.
We'll fix that in a bit.
First rechecks contain rich text like not content.
I'm going to rename the rich text they want to call that display because that can be called in Scripps
I need a good clear name for it.
And this display container is now done before I can start making things look like they're going to I
need something else a lot of these black containers so I constantly have things recycling every time
I change anything.
So let's put it another child.
This is going to another Santa's container and I'm going to call this butter container.
Now look what's happening.
Button container is underneath display container.
And if I give display container a minimum size so it's a good size for a display container.
How about so let's see a rectangle Let's make you minimum size of two hundred on the X..
That's way to become at 100.
Yeah that's pretty good.
I mean give that a million slice of 100.
And the display glass I'm going to make full rectangle for now and the display I'm going to have not
be the entire size of this display.
So instead of being the entire size Let's go a little smaller.
I'm going to make the text 200 wide by 50 high.
And let's set this one last time so display glass.
Get back to rest.
And let's give the minimum size now because it's starting to get a little bit fiddly So we give it 200
by 100.
That's on minimum size.
You know what let's make it a bit bigger I make it to 50 percent of it 25 pixels on either side the
display and every text in there.
Right now it's a little smaller so it's gonna have a border but it's looking pretty.
Let's put some text in there just to see it will enable baby text text and write test.
Right.
Right now we have white on blue so it's quite hard to see.
But we will fix that.
That's what this is for.
This is so we can see what's this going to look like later.
For now let's call display content done.
We now have a button container within which I'm going to put a child node.
And this is going to be a grid container grid.
Containers are really awesome.
Let's make that full rectangle for now.
What this does is it organizes all child nodes in order you give them in a grid.
So first let's make a three column.
And what this means is when I enter things one will be on the left centre right.
And then one it's got a third column.
It'll start a new row and it'll just keep doing that for every child.
Here let's call this button grid.
Until this has something inside it it's going to keep re sizing unless I force a minimum size which
I really shouldn't be doing.
So let's give it a button.
And here is a button and you'll see the grid container has recycled itself.
Of course this button one and just to see how it feels.
I'm going to get you to put the other button.
I'd like you to make some more buttons.
We've got button one.
So I'd like it to make buntu through zero and an okay button.
Don't worry about putting a label on them just yet.
Just make another 10 buttons.
So going to 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0.
And okay put them in the grid contents line everything up.
If you want extra credit See if you can find a separation and this separation within grid container
they're in one of the categories and give a space between buttons.
If you want a good value I like.
Pixels between them but play around until you've got a grid you're happy with.
Pause the video makes some more buttons and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And work Mac.
Well this is actually pretty simple.
When I do not take buttons one select it and duplicate duplicate duplicate duplicate duplicate.
I that that nice and easy.
Right now these buttons don't look great however.
We're going to fix that limit when the AMA do a rename buttons tend to zero and button 11 2 okay button.
Okay it's probably better I think because that's one of the first in script.
If I want to give them a label I could put a rich text label as a child but want to do that instead.
Let's use the text value of the button.
Now we didn't do this before not making lany Lips and this last one is going to be okay later on I'm
going to show you how you can send this text value this string as a signal into a script.
So eventually the play is going to press a button and God is going to send one or five or nine as a
saying before you go any further and we will make this look beautiful in a moment.
This isn't quite a grid because I want one more thing I want a texture.
So let's go back to putting grid and add a new texture.
And this is going to be a texture rectangle.
Not going to bother with a nine patch texture because I don't need it.
Re size isn't going to be the same size each time I would put this dot red in there when the player
enters the right colour.
It will be green.
Normally I wouldn't use red and green for critical information.
The reason is the most common form of colourblindness is the one confuses red and green So it's not
a great practice.
However this is a nice to have feature rather critical game information.
I also don't want the light here.
I want to zero in the centre.
Camera right in the light there so all I would do is move the light over here because the position in
the scenery is where it is in the grid.
OK so the grid has recycled itself and now I want to make this more awesome.
To do this I need to make a theme.
I don't need to make a theme right.
I could go in here.
I could remove all the buttons I've just made.
Change the look of this button and then duplicate them.
But if I use a theme I can load that theme in too any no one wants to use the same thing.
Let me show an image.
Let's go to the paranoid.
If we make the theme in the parent node all children will inherit that theme unless we tell it otherwise.
And I'm going to scroll down to it this theme.
I put a new theme.
And we click on theme and you'll see right here the theme comes up.
And at the moment the only thing is let only change the default.
Let's change that let's get a new dynamic font click on dynamic font and you'll see everything is already
vanished.
And under font going to load a font in giving you a couple of fonts.
So a graphics interface fonts you'll see Ken vector future and Convector future thin vector future is
going to be my default font and thing is going to be for things like buttons.
So if that's my default font let's load it in my default size I'm saying default a lot because I can
always override this in an individual node.
It's going to be 30 and already see all the child knows have changed their font.
We can now save this thing.
So if I click on this floppy disk I save I was going to call it seemed to urias at the moment.
We have a font that changes with thing.
Let's now change the display and the display is a take look at it.
Rich Text label.
OK.
So back into the thing and I want to edit the thing and I can either add an item or add a class item.
Here's the difference.
If I add an item it'll say what you want to change.
I want to change the rich text Where's that.
There it is.
And what do you want to change with it.
The icon style font the colour.
Great.
However if I add a class item rich text labels the last thing I selected so it's there.
It'll automatically add in everything which text labels can do.
So let's start with the default font rich text labels are going to have a default font of black.
This might not update automatically.
Don't worry when something changes it will demonstrate that I'm going to display an image change test
all capitals to tests like this.
Look it's update itself at the moment.
This isn't centred we're going to use beeby code later in the course to centre this depending on what's
being typed.
It's a.
Don't worry about the font not being centred yet.
Alright these buttons.
I want to add a new class item for the buttons in the themes.
It's good to thin at it class add class item and which can find buttons.
Which will probably be under B because I'm in my 40s and know my alphabet.
Okay buttons are going to have quite a few changes.
Let's start with the fonts.
So um.
Add in a new dynamic font and under font I'm going to load vector thin and I once change the setting
so being 30 is going to be 20 so the buttons are going to look smaller and look they've already changed
colour back upper level and other colours my font colour is going to be black.
Now I'm not gonna see the font straight away because I know what black or grey but that's okay because
the next thing I do is change what the buttons look like.
Let's go down to style.
You'll see here that we have nothing for disabled focus.
Hover normal and press the different states for the button can be in the only ones I may use right now
a normal hover and pressed.
Normal is what's the button look like hover as what does it look like on the mausers over it and pressed.
What was it look up when you're actually pressing it.
If we scroll down you'll see these coloured metal panels so under normal.
I'm going to go new text text Starbucks extra.
Click on it and look.
All the buttons have vanished.
So let's put in a text.
I mean use the blue one for normal.
Let's head back.
It won't show straightaway until something changes but don't worry the next thing I do is pressed when
it's pressed I want to go and read so new style box texture and look at the buttons have come back.
Let's go into the texture and I'm going to change the texture for a press button to read.
We're going to use green for hover.
Let's do that again for hover.
Again I'm using red and green.
Not great practice but it's nice to have not a critical piece of information so I can live with it for
now.
If you'd rather use yellow.
By the way use yellow.
That's cool.
And there is my hover button.
Next thing to do is I want to standardize the size.
I don't want these buttons changing size so inside the button.
I want to do.
Is going to rest and go to a minimum size and the most abundant 20 40 by 40.
Now you'll notice that I've got this funding foot by foot in the US of change.
So I want these parameters to copy the easiest thing to do is to press this little spanner screwdriver
or wrench a screwdriver.
He don't know what a spanner is and click it.
Get a copy parameters and then he's going to select all of these buttons but not the light and pace
the practice.
Now it has also pace the numbers that was silly of me.
I go back and change those numbers.
These buttons are now the right size.
Let's also change this texture rectangles called White and under rectangle going to give that same minimum
size.
Now you notice the note is change size.
It hasn't.
OK so let's go over to expand and nele Change size.
Great and here is our pop up.
Couple more things I want to do.
I mentioned the extra credit things that she had to do that.
Let's go to the button grid and scroll down to this custom constants and I will have the separation
and separation would put this operation to 8 and 8 separation to it and that's just going make everything
a little wider now.
It might not be perfectly centred right now but when got home runs this season it will CENTERA it which
is amazing.
In fact I think that might actually be pretty well set.
One more thing I wanna do is this.
Okay button which is the sum I want to change the texture just for this button so it's using the theme
unless I overwrite something.
Let's look at that.
Get a custom styles and custom normal steinbock texture.
Back into the right folder and I must stick with the same colours.
But I'm gonna use this corner so corner blue for normal.
Scroll back down think of things to hover.
That's going to be believe hovels green wasn't it and pressed is going to be red.
And if I got those wrong I can always change them later.
So pressed new style wax texture.
And red.
And the important thing here is that this works just like inheritance.
In fact this was happening inheriting the theme.
But this button has extra properties and we have a really cool looking pop up.
One more thing I want to put up with themes is that right now our theme is a file so that save the changes
I've made so far I've got themed aureus just like any other property.
This can be called in script not only in script in animator's So if you wanted to you could make a different
theme for different parts of who you are.
Maybe you want to make it customizable seagoing of the player charts of different skins they can use.
Maybe during night vision mode you want a completely different thing maybe different levels have different
themes.
Maybe when you use different abilities you more things will come up.
You have a lot of flexibility here and I can now load this theme into any element I can build on this
theme by adding more class items and it will always refresh everything that's using that thing.
Some themes are awesome.
I encourage you use them and that brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we have looked at how to use grid containers to automatically organize gooey elements
which is a really great way of keeping things like inventory's or button panels really well organized.
We've set up a pop up node and we have been introduced to the wonderful world of things.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next year.